Jihoon: Hello guys, I think we can wait a few more minutes.
Matthew Keil: Is it my audio, or is nobody speaking?
Justin Florentine (Besu): It's not you, buddy.
Jihoon: Yeah, we're just waiting a few more minutes until we have more people.
Jihoon: I think we can wait below.
Jihoon: Yeah, I think we can start in a minute.
Jihoon: I guess.
Jihoon: People are busy, who are… Yeah, maybe. It's not the right time to… To also break out after…
Jihoon: Happy New Year!
Matthew Keil: I mean, if you want, I could tell jokes the whole hour. I can do that.
Jihoon: Oh, the floor is yours, but you got only one minute.
Matthew Keil: Although, I'm telling you, Justin, I'll give you a run for the money on the bubbliest mofo in the show. I'm just saying.
Justin Florentine (Besu): Do it, man. The more, the better.
Matthew Keil: Okay, cool.
Matthew Keil: I don't have any jokes, though.
Matthew Keil: At least not ones that are safe for work.
Jihoon: Right, that was a good one, I think.
Jihoon: Alright, we are, 5 minutes in, so I think we can start.
Jihoon: Yeah, so hello everyone, welcome, and wishing you all a Happy New Year. This is Fossil Breakout 26.
Jihoon: Though… Just wait a minute, let me check if we are on…
Jihoon: Lite and YouTube. This is first time doing this without… Which is support…
Jihoon: Wait a minute, we're not live on YouTube, let me quickly… Resolve this issue.
Justin Florentine (Besu): So, jokes are fair game, is what I'm hearing.
Jihoon: I guess so.
Justin Florentine (Besu): My.
Jihoon: -
Justin Florentine (Besu): My neighbor planted, dogwood trees in his front yard.
Justin Florentine (Besu): I'm not a huge fan of the bark.
Matthew Keil: Oh…
Matthew Keil: I was gonna go with Why Did the Chicken Cross the Road? but that one was even better.
Justin Florentine (Besu): what, what kind of music do balloons hate?
Matthew Keil: I don't know, what kind?
Justin Florentine (Besu): Pop.
Matthew Keil: Oh… oh, that's double grown. You got two in a row. You're the dad joke king, officially.
Matthew Keil: Knock, knock.
Justin Florentine (Besu): Who's there?
Matthew Keil: Orange.
Justin Florentine (Besu): Weren't you?
Matthew Keil: Oh, shoot, I screwed it up. Knock, knock, who's there?
Justin Florentine (Besu): Banana.
Matthew Keil: There you go. See, I didn't even have to tell you the joke, there it is.
Matthew Keil: Oh, that's it, I'm looking for dad jokes.
Matthew Keil: Don't threaten me with a good time.
Jihoon: Sorry about this.
Jihoon: Technical issue, so, I was told that…
Jihoon: We… we're not gonna get support from
Jihoon: Either your cakeholders starting this year, And… I haven't… Ran, breakout, And, you know, streaming,
Jihoon: live YouTube stream on my own, so I thought that it would be automatically, somehow, like, magically generated, but it seems… obviously it's not, so I just asked.
Matthew Keil: Coach J.
Jihoon: She can buff us up, so…
Jihoon: I mean, she said that she will… She's checking up, and…
Matthew Keil: Well, in the meantime…
Jihoon: Yes, you got another joke?
Matthew Keil: Why was the stadium so cool?
Justin Florentine (Besu): It was filled.
Matthew Keil: It was filled with fans.
Justin Florentine (Besu): Solid.
Matthew Keil: Why did the frog take the bus to work?
Matthew Keil: His car got towed.
Justin Florentine (Besu): Haha. Toad.
Justin Florentine (Besu): Is… Jihoon, did Pooja say this is gonna be, like, a regular challenge moving forward? Do we need somebody to kind of fill in that gap and do that, you know, technical bit with the YouTube stuff?
Jihoon: I think I need to check that.
Jihoon: she told me that, the EF told her that either Touma or I can…
Jihoon: Take care of the live streaming thing.
Jihoon: But I… At least… I haven't heard about it at all, so it's like…
Matthew Keil: she's here.
Jihoon: I…
Matthew Keil: Lucha just got here.
Jihoon: I.
Pooja Ranjan: Hi, Jihoon, hi, yes. So, yes, Akash is joining shortly, and we will be live streaming this call. Sorry about the thing, I know, it was maybe a little late for you to know about it, but I was informed that it will be recorded and uploaded by default, so…
Jihoon: Oh, so… But upload it where? Is it YouTube?
Pooja Ranjan: Yes, so, so EF team informed me that protocol support has automated some of the processes internally, so the
Pooja Ranjan: breakout room meetings may not be streamed unless explicitly asked, and for that, there are some kind of settings that needs to be enabled when you create the agenda. But for this time, if you would like, we can go ahead and get streamed… get this meeting streamed, and
Pooja Ranjan: Going forward, that can be taken care of.
Jihoon: Oh, I see, I see. Okay, okay, sorry for the confusion, guys, so I… yeah, this is a new thing that we haven't heard about, I haven't heard about, so…
Jihoon: So… as Akash and Poojais are already here, maybe we can… try out, YouTube Livestream.
Jihoon: Until by this meeting, and then we can just rely on the automated unload.
Jihoon: infrastructure, Starting the next breakout call, I guess. So… .
Pooja Ranjan: Good.
Jihoon: Easter… Are we… are we live?
Akash | ECH: Yeah, we are live. Just give me a fire heads up so I can switch the screen.
Pooja Ranjan: So we're live with the pre-stream, we can move over the screen whenever you say.
Jihoon: Okay, yeah, we're good to go.
Akash | ECH: Yeah, real life.
Jihoon: Thank you.
Jihoon: All right, let's start this all over again. So, hello everyone, welcome, man.
Jihoon: I was wishing you all a Happy New Year. This is, Foster Breakout 26.
Jihoon: So… We are in the face of… proposing headliner candidates for Hagota.
Jihoon: We haven't written a proposal yet, but we'll write one soon.
Jihoon: While we were off last year, and early this year, we have shared foster readiness for Hagota article.
Jihoon: Here's a link.
Jihoon: So, please have a look if you're interested.
Jihoon: And Yeah, that's it for,
Jihoon: what's it called? The proposal for Heikota stuff, and then I think we can move on to development updates, or research updates, if anyone has.
Jihoon: Maybe I can go first. There are some changes made to the CL spec recently. So, I've updated fossil CL spec.
Jihoon: Here is the PR, if any CL dev is interested.
Jihoon: There might be more changes coming, though, but… if I…
Jihoon: make any changes to the fossil spec that I'm gonna share so that people can update their prototypes if they want to.
Jihoon: So, yeah, that's it from my end. Does anyone have any… Updates to share?
Matthew Keil: Did have just a quick question, regarding the interop stuff.
Matthew Keil: No specifics, though, obviously. But, it's my understanding we're gonna do some Hagoda interop.
Matthew Keil: And I'm curious, only because I can't actually make it to the interop this year, for scheduling reasons, are we gonna livestream that stuff? And is there a way to participate remotely, or do we need to have a representative there?
Jihoon: well… I haven't been any interrupt, so I'm probably not the best person to ask, but maybe…
Jihoon: Justine, you wanna say something?
Justin Florentine (Besu): It's doable. Generally, we don't do that, but, we do… can do ad hoc, remote stuff. The challenge is always, you know, zooming a couple of participants into a large room with lots of other participants and people huddled around fairly poor microphones.
Matthew Keil: Exactly.
Justin Florentine (Besu): Yeah, we've done that in the past. You know, if you can grin and bear it, it's doable. We're happy to give it a shot.
Matthew Keil: Okay.
Justin Florentine (Besu): I think fossil's important, I'm a booster, I'll bring a microphone.
Matthew Keil: Okay, and to be fair, we will have others, like, basically the rest of our team is gonna try to make it. I'm just slated to do H-star, and I know I just can't… I can't make it there this year.
Justin Florentine (Besu): Yeah, I mean, if you have specific points you'd like to have, you know, cared for, I'd be happy to advocate for you or your team, and try and present that best as possible.
Matthew Keil: If anything comes up, but honestly, it was just more that I know it's the… it's a valuable time in order to just get everybody together, huddled around, and so, like, we'll… we'll figure it out internally if we can find a second person that's also interested in the feature that can help out, and then we'll,
Matthew Keil: We'll make sure we have someone there representing.
Justin Florentine (Besu): Cool.
Jihoon: Right, cool. Do we have any more questions?
Subhasish: Hello, I have a question around, there was an, existing PR on, a rebase, a possible rebase, onto Glowers. Can I know what's the overall status of that PR?
Jihoon: So,
Jihoon: The PR, I think, I'll say we are… the PR itself is waiting for Fossil to become a…
Jihoon: headliner for Hakota, or not.
Jihoon: So… we need to become a headliner to march the PR.
Jihoon: And implementation-wise, we don't have, as far as I know, we don't have any working PBS implementation, so that's why we are still based on Fulu, and…
Jihoon: We had, like, nearly 8 clients.
Jihoon: based on the loop, but since…
Jihoon: Many of them were built, like, many months ago, so they are not kind of…
Jihoon: working today, so if you try to run intro.
Jihoon: Among those fully-based clients, then you're gonna see they are not working.
Jihoon: But… And, yeah, so… I would say current status is just waiting for the decision to be made regarding
Jihoon: Apostle has a headline up for Hagota.
Jihoon: But the PR itself is quite, up-to-date, so if you just read it, then I think… I believe you can get the gist of the change.
Subhasish: Right, so, on top of that, if, Fossil is selected as, the headliner, then, would that PR be, again, updated, because I think the glowess, has been updated.
Subhasish: A lot, maybe.
Jihoon: Yes, that's true. So, beloise itself is… Still incorporating spec changes.
Jihoon: And I haven't reflected those changes into that PR, I just wanted to wait a bit until we freeze global spec.
Jihoon: So, yeah, you're right. Once we freeze below us back, I can update the PR based on
Jihoon: the latest Gloss spec, and then…
Jihoon: once we have working PBS implementation, after a few DevNets, once we feel like it is okay to
Jihoon: rebase fossil implementation on top of it, then we were gonna have prototypes on top of Goloas.
Subhasish: Right, right, got it.
Matthew Keil: From a timing perspective, do we know when the… the Hagoda, headliner process is gonna happen? I don't remember hearing a timeline for that.
Jihoon: As I remember it, by early February, we are proposing headliner candidates, and then.
Matthew Keil: Okay.
Jihoon: In February, we're gonna select one.
Jihoon: one for CL, one for Yale, I guess. But…
Matthew Keil: Okay, so by March…
Jihoon: different.
Matthew Keil: should have clarity.
Jihoon: Yeah. Yes, I believe so.
Matthew Keil: And then we could start rebate, because, like, I know, obviously, we're also built on Fulu, and as I'm sure everybody else's code is, and there's a lot of changes in Gloss, so I think it's gonna be… you know, I'm wondering if it's worth doing interop based on Fulu when, you know, when we're together, or…
Matthew Keil: Is there enough time to rebase both the spec, get it merged, and
Matthew Keil: And rebase all of our code.
Matthew Keil: Just, just thinking out loud here.
Justin Florentine (Besu): So that… remember that this is a cross-layer, feature, so whatever decision we make here is gonna apply to the ELs as well. I think ELs would…
Justin Florentine (Besu): Well, speaking for Bayesu, EO would prefer to be on top of Glamsterdam, I think. Than Trulu.
Matthew Keil: And I think we do, too. I'm just wondering time, like, is if we don't… if we don't get clarity until, you know, sometime late… late February that it is headliner, in order to trigger the PR process, or the rebase in PR of…
Matthew Keil: of the spec on top of the Glamsterdam spec. That's not gonna leave a whole lot of time in order to rebase the code, with whatever changes that are necessary. So I think it's just worth something to think about.
Jihoon: Is it… Is it about the spec PR, or having…
Jihoon: Or working in PBS client. Good, yeah.
Matthew Keil: Exactly. Like, we'd have to have a working EPBS client, and rebase all of the,
Matthew Keil: all of the FOSL code on top of that.
Matthew Keil: And I'm just concerned that it's… because, like, they're not expecting EPBS DevNet Zero until… I'm guessing it's going to be March from what we just heard on our testing call, if not mid-March.
Matthew Keil: So it's gonna be… it's gonna be a tight timeline in order to be able to get everything, you know, all the pieces together for, you know, for us to actually have a meaningful…
Matthew Keil: Session together.
Jihoon: Yeah, that makes sense. I think…
Jihoon: On the CL side, we don't need to try to make the intro based on Fulu, but on the EL side, given that the changes we're gonna have on the EL
Jihoon: on flu and on coloss are…
Jihoon: quite minimal. So, we were using one client, I believe it was Lowestar, to try interrupt between Rez and Aragon, just to make sure that it is working correctly.
Jihoon: But that was just about the EL. So, in general, I don't think we need to make every client's interop working.
Jihoon: Given that we are not gonna be based on blue anyway.
Jihoon: So, that's my thought. So, after we… have a working PBS client, it will be, like.
Jihoon: I don't know, mid-March or April, then…
Jihoon: given that there is… there will be a lot of changes, then some clients might prefer to just build everything from scratch, I'm not sure, it's up to their choice.
Jihoon: So, but… We We don't need to rush, right?
Jihoon: we are targeting next to Amsterdam, so…
Jihoon: I think we still have a lot of time to do, yeah.
Matthew Keil: Just wanted to put that thought in the world, only, you know, just because I know we're scheduling, so just get the… get the wheels turning, you know what I mean, mentally, so we can all think about it.
Jihoon: Yeah, cool, yeah.
Jihoon: I think in the meantime, if you were to use some developer resources,
Jihoon: you guys can give a review on the PR, just to make sure that if the PR makes sense or not.
Jihoon: Alright, do we want to cover more questions?
Jihoon: Yes, Katya?
Katya: Hello, everyone. Can you hear me?
Jihoon: Yep.
Katya: If you have some time, could you please make a short summary of your PR, so you shared it? Is it some tiny changes, or maybe something…
Katya: Some new logic, or…
Jihoon: which PRR you're referring to?
Katya: The specs PR 804818.
Katya: So…
Jihoon: Yeah, so, that's,
Jihoon: I can give you a summary here. So, it's just about, like, a refactoring
Jihoon: stuff we introduced in Glasp.
Jihoon: spec, So we, we did some refactor to process withdrawals function.
Jihoon: And… Some parts of that are related to…
Jihoon: Part of the function that we are modifying.
Jihoon: And… The second thing is… In the fork choice spec.
Jihoon: although we are based on Fulu, there were… there was also some refactor to the existing fork choice function.
Jihoon: And some were not exactly the same with full spec, so I changed it a little bit.
Jihoon: to make sure we are in line with Fulu's spec.
Jihoon: And… That's it. So, nothing fundamentally different from what we had yesterday.
Jihoon: But there are some refactors that we wanna… Commenting too.
Katya: Yeah, I got it, thank you. Nothing, like, very serious. Okay, thanks.
Jihoon: Cool, thanks.
Jihoon: Do we have more questions? Otherwise, we can…
Jihoon: Go ahead and wrap up the call.
Jihoon: It seems we're good, so I think we can go ahead and wrap up this call early. We're gonna have a next breakout call in two weeks, so we can discuss anything there.
Jihoon: yeah, sorry about the asshole.
Jihoon: In the beginning of this call, we're gonna have a much smoother breakout call next time.
Jihoon: Thank you for joining this breakout call. Hope you guys have a great rest of your day, and…
Jihoon: See you in two weeks! Thank you!
Katya: Thank you, bye.
Eitan: Thank you.
Justin Florentine (Besu): Yeah.